Swim lessons

Hi All! I wanted to reach out and let you all know that I'll be making an adjustment to my swim lesson prices from $30 to $45. I apologize for the price increase! I love teaching lessons, but my schedule with work (at Northwestern hospital) and school (Masters of Public Health) have become more demanding, so I need to make this change so teaching stays sustainable for me and my schedule. 

I’ve enjoyed getting to know your kids and want to make sure it still works for you! Thank you so much for understanding!! 💦😊

In lessons:
	⁃	Kick on front and back
	⁃	Kick with arms extended and take strokes
	⁃	Kick with 1 arm up and 1 down to practice breathing (can pout kick board under arm to help)
	⁃	Kick on wall with face in water
	⁃	Kick with kick board 
	⁃	Blow bubbles
	⁃	Go to bottom of pool and get stuff


Clients:
	⁃	Vivenne and Cassian. At condo on W Erie. $40 for Vivienne, 45 min. $30 for Cassian, 30 min. Very esrly clients grandfathered in at this price 
	⁃	Hudson, Sofia, Diyan. 30 min lessons for $35
	⁃	Kristie Henry. 10 and 6. Never swam before. Sheridan Park Pool, $50 for both 45 min. Intro deal price 
	⁃	Joseph. Condo on E Erie. $45 for 30 min
	⁃	2 boys at E Erie

I am definitely available and open if you would like to schedule! If you are in West Loop like me, I was planning to host private lessons at Skinner Park Pool (in Whitney Young High School) or Sheridan Park Pool, near UIC.


If we book multiple sessions or consecutive weeks, I can definitely give a “package discount” and I’m flexible! My availability varies a bit because of my job! I will usually have Mondays, Thursday afternoons, and Fridays open. Saturdays and Sundays will always be open to schedule. I'm open to coordinate times whether it be morning, afternoon, or evening! It will also depend on the pool we choose and their open swim times. Currently, I am awaiting the pools to release their summer schedule! Do you have any times/days that will work better for you?

1 week, 2 45 min sessions = $80



For the baby, a session is typically 30 min max (depends on attention span, but typically 20-30min)! I charge $45 for babies and $50 if I have to drive outside of the city or 30min+ commute. Toddler lessons are 45 min and $40 ($45 if longer commute).

Hi, thanks for reaching out! Has your daughter ever swam before? If she’s a beginner, I would focus on becoming comfortable with the water, beginner water skills such as learning to float on your front and back, and learning 3 strokes - freestyle, backstroke, and a modified/beginner breaststroke. I charge $60 for 45 min swim lessons. ($70 if I have to drive outside of the city or 30min+ commute). 

If they’re intermediate, I would add on learning real breaststroke (vs modified) and learning a fourth stroke, butterfly, if they’re ready. I also would work on improving stroke mechanics like breathing and timing, being able to swim 2 laps of each stroke, and learning flip turns. The cost for this is like above, $60 for 45 min. 

If you are in West Loop like me, I was planning to host private lessons at Skinner Park Pool (in Whitney Young High School) or Sheridan Park Pool, near UIC. If you want to book multiple sessions or weeks, we can negotiate from those rates and find a deal that works for both of us!

For swimmers who are on a swim team and looking for advanced and/or technique focused lessons, I charge a bit more for these since the lessons are very refined, more technical, and a full hour. These are $65 for 60 min.

Ask for cheaper:
	⁃	I’m sorry, I really wish I could! For my first two families this summer (Kristie was one of them), I charged $60 for 45 min, and then $10 extra per kid in the family. So my set price only went up $5! I just now charge the regular price if a family has multiple kids.  During my 4 years of swimming at the University of Michigan, our coaches told us that we should charge at minimum $1/min for any private lessons. That is how I came up with my pay structure! I even factor parking pricing in my lesson costs, so unfortunately this is the lowest I can go. But I do deeply appreciate you seeking lessons with me and telling your other friends in the mom group!! 
	⁃	I’m sorry, and I genuinely wish I could! For my first two families this summer (one being Kristie’s), I charged $40 for a 45-minute session and an additional $10 for each child in the family. So, the set cost only increased by $5. Now, I charge the regular rate for families with multiple kids.
	⁃	
	⁃	During my four years of swimming at the University of Michigan, our coaches advised us to charge a minimum of $1 per minute for private lessons. This is how I created my current pay structure. My current pricing structure also includes parking expenses in the lesson cost.
	⁃	
	⁃	I wish I could offer a lower rate, but unfortunately, this is the lowest I can go while still covering my costs. Your interest in my lessons and your referrals within the mom group mean a lot to me, and I deeply appreciate it! Thank you for considering lessons with me!

And I’m sorry, I really wish I could! During my 4 years of swimming at the University of Michigan, our coaches told us that we should charge at minimum $1/min for any private lessons. I’ve also cross referenced private lessons for local Chicago swim schools at their facilities. That is how I came up with my pay structure! But I do deeply appreciate you seeking lessons with me and telling your other friends in the mom group!!